Natural gas is abundant.
Reliable supply is not.
Liquefied natural gas, commonly known as
LNG, was meant to close that [music]
gap.
>> So, I like to think about liquefied
natural gas as oil's nerdier cousin.
>> It isn't as big as oil, but it's
becoming bigger and it's sort of
becoming this backbone for a lot of
energy systems.
>> It has so much of a broad reach in terms
of where it goes, for power [snorts]
generation, for industry, for
transportation.
India, Japan, Asia, and also Europe all
have long-term contracts.
>> If you were going to build your economy
around liquefied natural gas imports, it
had to be reliable. And this is what
Qatar offered until now.
>> The energy war escalates.
>> Qatar's Ras Laffan industrial city,
which houses the world's largest LNG
[music] export plant, has suffered
extensive damage from an Iranian strike.
This
>> plant, which had been running for 30
years, had never ever missed a delivery.
[music]
>> Never in the industry's wildest dreams
would this facility be damaged, and
damaged to such an extent that would
[music] take years for parts of it to
restart.
>> So, what happens when a war becomes a
stress test [music] for a global
addiction?
>> How do you replace supply from a region
that's now so fragile [music] and
vulnerable?
>> Natural gas is an incredibly useful
fuel. It can be used for heating, for
used for cooking, used for power
generation, even goes into a fertilizer
to be used to grow our foods. It's often
cheap and abundant.
>> But getting your hands on it can be
difficult if you're not in the right
region.
>> So, traditionally, it's been moved
through pipelines. Liquefied natural gas
helps to solve that problem because
[music] it turns gas into a liquid so
that it can be much more easily
transported anywhere in the world.
>> Oil and gas come from wells, either on
land or offshore. But to make it into
liquefied natural gas, you need really
specialized equipment.
>> LNG, really, it's a magic of
engineering. It gets super-chilled to
-163°C.
[music]
This gas, when turned into a liquid, is
600 times more dense, so every shipment
is packed full of energy.
>> It goes from the LNG plant to the
vessels, and then on the other side,
when it gets delivered, [music] it has
to be sent to these specialized import
terminals so that it gets warmed back
up.
>> It has become the fastest-growing fossil
fuel globally. It represents about $250
[music] billion in global trade. I like
to describe it as the champagne of fuel.
The infrastructure that's required is
[music] very expensive, but it became
more affordable and more accessible to a
lot of emerging countries for a few
reasons. [music]
One is the US shale boom.
>> This is the combination of hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling that
really unlocked this enormous resource
potential out of the US. There was a
wave of build-out for import terminals.
So this helped increase the ability of
countries to import more LNG, adding to
the number of countries that were able
to import.
>> Cheap supply, floating terminals, fast
build-out. A fuel once reserved for
richer countries suddenly became
available to everyone, and it was sold
as a bridge fuel to renewables.
>> Which means, basically, it's for
countries to get away from using dirtier
coal because gas, when combusted, emits
less CO2, but also back up intermittent
renewables.
>> Gas has about half the emissions of
coal, so it's cleaner than coal.
Obviously not as clean as renewables,
but it provided that solid, that base
load power.
>> But, over the last few years, the
industry, especially big oil, which has
invested a lot into LNG production
capacity and exports, has changed this
pitch. As the world's energy demands has
grown, both in the developing world and
the developed world, liquefied natural
gas came to be seen more as a
destination fuel, not just a bridge
fuel.
>> Liquefied natural gas, an affordable and
reliable source of cleaner energy.
>> Much of these LNG exports are from Qatar
and head mostly to China, India, and
other Asian destinations.
But, there's one little problem. All LNG
exports from Qatar have to pass through
the Strait of Hormuz.
>> The Strait of Hormuz is a key choke
point in the Persian Gulf because about
20% of the world's liquefied natural gas
production passes through there each
day.
>> So, the fact that the world became very
reliant on Qatar was no surprise given
that it had the resource advantage, the
geographical advantage, [music] and it
had really built itself up as the world
premier producer in LNG.
>> Our energy will find its way into
millions more homes and businesses
around the world.
Qatar Gas
>> With such reliance on LNG having taken
hold, the fragility of the system has
been quickly exposed by war.
>> With the attack on infrastructure,
especially the Ras Laffan facility in
Qatar last week,
the likelihood of a quick normalization
is now diminishing.
>> There were Iranian missile strikes on
the facility at Ras Laffan, damaging two
out of the 14 trains in this massive LNG
complex.
>> This is something that Qatar estimates
is going to take 3 to 5 years to rebuild
and cost the country anywhere up to $20
billion a year in lost revenue.
Meanwhile, customers have to look
elsewhere to get the fuel that they
need, which causes a bidding war in
markets and for the price of natural gas
to rise.
>> LNG output around the world had been
rising steadily, but the closure of the
Strait of Hormuz and the damaged
facility has led exports to fall roughly
20% and it's unclear how soon that
supply will return.
>> The war has revealed that the LNG market
is much more fragile [music] than people
had before thought.
>> As countries consumption of liquefied
natural gas increased, so did their
dependence on this fuel. By relying
heavily on imports of natural gas,
you're essentially swapping one
vulnerability for another.
>> [music]
>> And so when a big disruption happens in
a place like Qatar, there are no
alternatives. The only thing that you
can do is cut consumption of gas.
>> The hardest-hit economies will be the
countries that had the biggest reliance
on LNG from Qatar. Southeast Asia in
particular, so Bangladesh, Thailand,
they're seeing the impact almost
immediately. There's energy rationing,
power rationing.
>> There's now a [music] bidding war in
certain areas in order to replace that
liquefied natural gas that's been lost.
[music]
It drives up costs ultimately for
consumers.
>> Spot LNG prices have more than doubled
in recent weeks going from 30 million
dollars for a single cargo to now almost
70 million.
>> This moment destroys the view that LNG
can be an affordable and reliable fuel
for the emerging world in the energy
transition.
>> And this could be the real damage, not
just lost energy, but lost faith.
Countries are already looking towards
other energy sources and for now,
they're likely not taking the bridge to
renewables.
>> In the short term, at least in the
immediate term, they might [music] use
more coal. You're seeing Japan restart a
mothballed coal-fired power plant.
You're seeing South Korea also increase
the [music] limits of their coal power
generation.
>> But, it's complicated.
>> When you also have coal prices just
[music] as high, fuel oils just as high
as well, everything is elevated, then it
really means no good options for
countries that rely on energy imports.
>> But, without a reliable and affordable
bridge fuel, and with oil prices rising,
the long term could see a push to
renewables out of pure necessity.
>> Renewables have been attacked for many,
many years as being intermittent.
However, the sun cannot be trapped in a
canal. The winds cannot be held back.
So, these are domestic sources of energy
that have a big security advantage over
imported [music] fuels such as LNG.
>> Asian countries' reliance on LNG imports
are already looking to diversify their
energy mix, which includes renewables,
the equipment of which will mostly come
from China.
>> It was never going to be a linear line
of, you know, everything [music] would
eventually transition to renewables, but
I think there were some countries and
regions in particular that were working
hard to pivot away. Now, I think a lot
of those investment plans could be
delayed because of this massive
disruption.
>> So, in the near term, there remains a
serious gap in the LNG market, which
puts one country in particular in a
pretty good position to capitalize.
>> American natural gas production is at an
all-time high because I kept my promise
to
drill, baby, drill.
>> US liquefied natural gas export capacity
has climbed nine times since [music]
2017, and the country is now the world's
biggest liquefied natural gas exporter.
[music]
>> When there is a spike in prices, and
when people are trying to diversify away
from Qatar or away from the Middle East,
ultimately, the US [music] stands to
benefit.
>> Even though the US is now the world's
largest exporter of LNG, it's not going
to be enough
>> [music]
>> to backfill the chasm that has now been
formed without having Qatari LNG,
especially for the foreseeable future.
>> Upcoming LNG projects in Mozambique,
Canada, and Argentina could help plug
the shortfall,
but not in time to fill the gap.
>> Companies are now scrambling to think
about where can they invest? Where can
they trade? It's a paradigm shift for
the energy industry where a lot of
things that were previously planned are
no longer [music] in place.
>> This brings into question the role of
LNG and gas in the energy [music]
transition like never before.